dr. turvy is an expert in vertebrate
evolution and is going to kick things
off by testing my knowledge what is it
well I do know this is this is a walrus
speculum
so all right it is a penis bang and I
know it's the largest penis bone on
earth I know we don't have them that's
right that's about it but we're in a
minority there eighty-six percent of
mammal species alive today have got
penis bones of some kind of shape or
size there's very certain hypotheses for
what they might or might not do soon
they can structurally support and
maintain an erection and it can
definitely allow longer sex annual
frequent sex so for example lines with
their Bakula will have sex potentially
up to under time today one day in one
day and also it will provide other kinds
of structural integrity as well so it
will help keep the urethra open during
sex so preventing the tube through which
sperm passes from kind of being
compressed and collapsed while well sex
is happening they're really useful and
also they are arguably the most variable
single bone shown in any vertebrates so
there's a vast range of different sizes
and structures and shapes this one's
broken as well as an incredible that
it's actually surviving it's healed as
well we can only hope that it broke and
re healed outside the mating season is
it true that walrus penises walrus penis
bones were used as clubs it is true yes
when Wallace is being hunted by people
like the Viking colonists the Norse in
Greenland hundreds of years ago they'd
also harvest the Bakula from the wall of
his at the same time and with all them
and carve them and turn them into ax
handles and clubs so people would have
been killed by being bashed on the head
with Bakula imagine been beaten to death
with penis burned
[Music]